Computed properties are actually
gonna hand hang off in the same way,
with refs or reactive.
But what we'll do is we'll turn
return a function called computed, so
in this case we've got a count of 0,
if we wanna double that count,
we would say computed, and
then we return state.count * 2.
So that's how we would work with
computed inside of the composition API.
For watch, it's pretty much
the same as the old options API and
you have access to the new and old values.
So, if I wanted to pass in the state,
which is count,
I would say I wanna watch the state,
the newValue and the oldValue.
And then I have access to
newValue.count inorder to do that same
kind of watching effect
that you saw before.
So, in our older demo what we did
in order to increase that state
in watchers, is we had watch,
numItems were newValue and
oldValue, I could console.log(newValue).
Let's see if I can just open
up the console here and
say add item, no code pen hits me today.
We go into New Item, we go into > view,
into the > Console, and we add 1, 2, 3.
And I'm showing you all of
the things that I'm accessing here.
Now, if we wanna do the same
thing in the composition API,
it's like you saw earlier.
Where we add an item 1 2 3, and
that composition API looks like this.
Remember, you have to pass in watch at the
top, along with reactive and toRefs, but
you would pass state into watch and
then you could say, newValue.numItems.
There's a new thing called watchEffect,
they're like watchers but
with small differences,
it executes the function immediately.
Rather than watch that's waiting for
something to change after everything's
been mounted, it executes it immediately.
And it tracks all the reactive state
properties it used during the execution as
dependencies.
This is pretty neat, so you don't actually
have to state the exact thing that you
want to watch unlike the options API where
you had to say, okay, I wanna watch count,
I'm gonna say count here, watchEffect,
it's watching all of them.
So here we can say
console.log(state.count) and
that watchEffect is going to do that.
So here we've got that watchEffect,
and again,
remember you have to
pass it in at the top.
And so we're passing in state.nums,
and if we look at the console,
the big difference here,
we see a 0 immediately, right?
As I mentioned, we're executing
it immediately, unlike watch.
And so here now you can see as it changes,
it goes up.